Q1: FDB decouples the TMS from the SS to make the system more scalable as a whole. The TMS is responsible for handling writes, organizing the order of transactions, and detecting conflicts. Meanwhile, the storage servers in the SS are responsibly for actually storing data on disk and returning it for read operations. By keeping most conflict resolution logic in the TMS, FDB allows the storage capacity to grow efficiently, without slowing down the rest of the system. 

Q2: The resolvers are responsible for detecting conflicts between concurrent transactions. This happens after a transaction is submitted, but before it is physically persisted by the log mechanism. This follows FDB's model of optimistic concurrency control, where it assumes that transactinos won't conflict and then deals with them later in case they do. By allowing the resolvers to catch conflicts before persisting to logs, FDB makes sure that most operations are completed quickly while still making sure that conflicts don't pass through. 

Q3: The sequencer assigns both a read version and commit version so it can enforce strict serializability. The read version tells the transaction what state of the database it is seeing. That way, it knows it's not seeing inconsistent data being modified by concurrent transactions. The commit verison is only assigned if there are no conflicts, at the very end of the transaction's lifecycle. This makes sure that future operations with a higher read version than this commit version can see changes. 

Q4: Snapshot reads are different from standard reads because they will not fail if the data they are accessing is modified in the background. We would use snapshot reads when we don't have a hard requirement on strong consistency, since there's a possibility that we are reading stale data. For example, if we are making a social media app and displaying a like counter, it's fine if we get stale data.

Q5: FDB's recovery process is cheap because it just needs to fetch the last safe version from the log servers and simply start a new generation. The log servers are the only component that synchronously writes data to disk, which are fast appends. Storage servers pull asynchronously, so when log servers fail the storage servers only need to pull the data that they haven't already received. 
